---
layout: post
title: Struggles and stucks
comments: true
---

## Set up

The goal is to make a command line interface tool for Pagure. I named  it `cranc`, 
since Pagure is a hermit crab. Cranc is crab in catalan, the language spoken in 
Catalonia which I'm learning now.

The project is hosted on [Pagure.io](https://pagure.io/cranc). Firstly it was necessary
to create a cranc virtual environment. Then my mentor helped me to make a setup file, 
requirements.txt and the cranc application `cranc.py` with `__init__.py` file. 
My first commit was ready!

Having the initial setting ready I could make first group with first command in 
[Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/7.x/).
For the moment the only functionality of cranc is to list all pull requests of a project.


## Inspiration

The idea is to learn from the best. A lot of inspiration comes from popular command line
tools such as [git review](https://docs.openstack.org/infra/git-review/usage.html) 
(cli for Gerrit) and [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/) 
(cli for Kubernetes). 

Cranc is being built on libpagure library and takes after of previously written Pagure
cli tools, such as argparse based `cli` and click based `pag`. The main difference from this two
is that cranc is using both click and libpagure.

My mentor suggested that we use a consistent structure of commands. In cranc case all the commands
will be `command <action> <resource>`, where the action is a verb and resource is a noun.
I took the libpagure library a turned the functions into commands.


## And now to the struggles part

Before creating even the simplest project layout, I needed 
to read a lot of documentation and see several examples of how `setup.py` files actually look
like, what belongs to the `requirements.txt` and what is actually python3 built-in and how to 
make a `.gitignore` file. My mentor was helping me and showed me guides and examples from
her own code.

Basically every line of code I rewrite several times and still that doesn't prevent me from...
emmm...for example making a pull request with my private API key, which was hanging there publicly
for several days..Also, I find myself incredibly slow in reading and understanding documentation,
especially when it's written too `professionally`. I usually prefer to read blogposts with examples,
stackoverflow or nicely written guides. 

Anyways, I finally made my first thing work: cranc is now listing pull requests! 


## Time to create the first test

My mentor suggested to use pytest library (I was struggling half day trying to figure out how Mock 
should work, but I'll get there later :) ).

The libpagure library has already built-in filters for 
status, assignee and author. For the moment cranc/libpagure is filtering well the open and merged
pull requests. However, I ran into a problem. While filtering the closed pull requests, I got both 
closed and merged. For that I needed to go to the pagure code and I found piece of code which
probably caused this and I made it behave the way I wanted.


## But how to test it before I send a pull request to Pagure?

And here another struggle comes. My idea was to run a docker instance and modify the script for
populating the database with some more pull requests, so I had something to try the filters on.

While trying to add some fake data into local database I faced several problems. After 
investigating for some time I discovered one small mistake/typo and one import not behaving well.
 
The issue I found was a non existing flag status label, which was throwing a KeyError when run
in the development pagure instance. Pull requests can be labeled with 5 different statuses. The constant 
FLAG\_STATUSES\_LABELS allows to label a pull request with these 5 kinds of flags: 
"success", "error", "failure", "pending" and "cancelled". However, in the code the constant 
had a value `status="Open"`, and that ended up in crash. I just changed it to `status="success"`
and the error was gone.

The second issue was an import error. Actually there were two. One module was not imported at all 
in one file, and a full path to a module was missing in another file. 

I fixed it and could finally test my change - and it worked! 

If I get the pull request merged on Pagure, cranc will be hopefully filtering the pull requests 
by status as I want it. Or I will face more challenges :)


## What helped me

I saw some advices from current or former Outreachy interns and I benefited greatly from that. 
Maybe it will be of use to somebody if I mention my little tips for making my life better.
Here they are:

[x] **Writing notes.** Into some personal README. This prevents me from asking over and over the
same questions or google for 20th time how to do git stash pop.
(True story, 
I had to make an alias in my git config, so now I call git unstash. Sadly, writing it there 
finally made me remember it.)

Try not to have 
several READMEs in different directories like me.

[x] **Asking questions.** To the mentor, to other contributors/authors, to people I know from coding 
groups, to anyone who knows some programming. And also explain. I sometimes come up with an idea
when I'm describing my problem to my mother or granny :)

[x] **Keeping excited.** 
Use the excitement of starting a new project as much as you can. I'm an Outreachy intern 
for nearly a month now and I'm still climbing up on the excitement hill :) It doubles 
all the little successes and increases significantly the frustration tolerance. Oh, and it also 
makes me want to continue working on weekends, holidays and for example write this part
of the blogpost on christmas eve when the kids are sleeping, instead of watching a new episode
of my favorite series.
